docs/raspberrypi/nbiot.md, before:

# Testing Raspberry Pi + SIM7000E NB-IoT Hat + Maxis NB-IoT 

## NB-IoT AT command testing
AT command test is basic step to check if NB-IoT is working in good condition.

### Prerequisite
- Raspberry Pi
- SIM7000E NB-IoT HAT
- MicroUSB Type B Cable

### Steps

1. Plug the NB-IoT HAT into Raspberry Pi Board using USB.

2. Run the command below on Raspberry Pi to check availability of HAT. It will show /dev/ttyUSB2 if it exists.
    
    ```
    ls /dev/ttyUSB2
    ```

3. Run the command below to install screen utility on Raspberry Pi, which allows us to communicate to HAT via UART.
    
    ```
    sudo apt-get install screen
    ```

4. Run below command to start.
    
    ```
    screen /dev/ttyUSB2 115200
    ```

5. Type and enter `AT` command repeatedly until you see `OK` in return.

6. Run AT commands below to test connection with Internet.

    ```c
    ->: User input

    # test using AT
    -> AT
    OK

    # check firmware version, make sure it contains SIM7000E
    -> AT+GSV
    SIMCOM_Ltd
    SIMCOM_SIM7000C
    Revision:1351B06SIM7000C

    # check service, result might be different
    -> AT+CPSI?
    +CPSI: GSM,Online,502-12,0x1054,62168,512 DCS 1800,-71,0,32-32
    -> AT+CPSI?
    +CPSI: NO SERVICE,Online

    # check signal quality
    -> AT+CSQ
    +CSQ: 23,99

    # configure to use NB-IoT
    -> AT+CMNB=2
    OK

    -> AT+CNMP=38
    OK

    -> AT+CBANDCFG="NB-IOT",8
    OK

    -> AT+CSTT="M2MXNBIOT"
    OK

    -> AT+CPSI?
    +CPSI: LTE NB-IOT,Online,502-12,0x74CE,28185722,12,EUTRAN-BAND8,3702,0,0,-10,-82,-72,15

    # check establish connection
    -> AT+CIPSTATUS
    OK

    STATE: IP START

    # start establish connection
    -> AT+CIICR
    OK

    -> AT+CIPSTATUS
    OK

    STATE: IP GPRSACT

    # get IP address
    -> AT+CIFSR
    10.247.96.227

    # ping www.google.com
    -> AT+CIPPING="www.google.com"
    +CIPPING: 1,"172.217.166.132",111,52
    +CIPPING: 2,"172.217.166.132",170,52
    +CIPPING: 3,"172.217.166.132",110,52
    +CIPPING: 4,"172.217.166.132",128,52
    ```

  7. Run `Ctrl-a` then `Ctrl-d` to minimise the screen. To Resume the screen run `screen -r`.

  8. Run `Ctrl-a` then type: `:quit` to quit the screen.


## PPP Installation on Raspberry Pi
NB-IoT HAT offers PPP (Point-to-Point Protocol) for us to connect Raspberry Pi to Internet easily. The following steps show how to establish Internet connection with Raspberry Pi.

### Prerequisite
- Raspberry Pi
- SIM7000E NB-IoT HAT
- MicroUSB Type B Cable

### Steps

1. Plug the NB-IoT HAT into Raspberry Pi Board using USB

2. Run the command below on Raspberry Pi to check availability of HAT. It will show /dev/ttyUSB2 if it exists.

    ```
    ls /dev/ttyUSB2
    ```

3. Go to directory where you have downloaded the GIT respository. E.g. /home/pi/maxis-nbiot-hackathon

    ```
    cd /home/pi/maxis-nbiot-hackathon
    ```

4. Run the commands below to install PPP on Raspberry Pi as root. You will need to enter password after command `sudo su`
    
    ```
    $ sudo su
    $ cd "Raspberry Pi/PPP Installer"
    $ chmod +x install-ppp.sh
    $ ./install-ppp.sh
    ```

5. Run command below to start the connection. 

    ```
    pon
    ``` 

6. Run command below to check if interface ppp0 exists.
    
    ```
    ifconfig
    ``` 

7. If it is successful, you should see IP exists in interface ppp0 from `ifconfig` command.

8. Run command below to stop the connection. 

    ```
    poff
    ``` 

9. Automate the connection during Raspberry Pi boot-up.
    - Run command `nano /etc/rc.local` to start edit file.
    - Insert 2 lines before line `exit 0` in file

    ``` hl_lines="2 3"
    ...
    sleep 5
    sudo pon &

    exit 0

    ```

10. Final script will be similiar as below:

    ``` hl_lines="20 21"
    #!/bin/sh -e
    #
    # rc.local
    #
    # This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
    # Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
    # value on error.
    #
    # In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
    # bits.
    #
    # By default this script does nothing.

    # Print the IP address
    _IP=$(hostname -I) || true
    if [ "$_IP" ]; then
        printf "My IP address is %s\n" "$_IP"
    fi

    sleep 5
    sudo pon &

    exit 0
    ```

11. Make sure you have turned off WiFi or unplug Ethernet to make sure Raspberry Pi will use PPP in next bootup.

12. Reboot Rapsberry Pi for step 9 to take effect.


### References
For more references, please visit https://www.rhydolabz.com/wiki/?p=16325

Commit message:

Insert NB-IoT SIM card
Add the statement to insert and lock SIM onto NB-IoT HAT

docs/raspberrypi/nbiot.md, after:

# Testing Raspberry Pi + SIM7000E NB-IoT Hat + Maxis NB-IoT 

## NB-IoT AT command testing
AT command test is basic step to check if NB-IoT is working in good condition.

### Prerequisite
- Raspberry Pi
- SIM7000E NB-IoT HAT
- MicroUSB Type B Cable

### Steps

1. Insert and lock the NB-IoT SIM card into NB-IoT HAT. Connect the NB-IoT HAT to Raspberry Pi Board via USB cable.

2. Run the command below on Raspberry Pi to check availability of HAT. It will show /dev/ttyUSB2 if it exists.
    
    ```
    ls /dev/ttyUSB2
    ```

3. Run the command below to install screen utility on Raspberry Pi, which allows us to communicate to HAT via UART.
    
    ```
    sudo apt-get install screen
    ```

4. Run below command to start.
    
    ```
    screen /dev/ttyUSB2 115200
    ```

5. Type and enter `AT` command repeatedly until you see `OK` in return.

6. Run AT commands below to test connection with Internet.

    ```c
    ->: User input

    # test using AT
    -> AT
    OK

    # check firmware version, make sure it contains SIM7000E
    -> AT+GSV
    SIMCOM_Ltd
    SIMCOM_SIM7000C
    Revision:1351B06SIM7000C

    # check service, result might be different
    -> AT+CPSI?
    +CPSI: GSM,Online,502-12,0x1054,62168,512 DCS 1800,-71,0,32-32
    -> AT+CPSI?
    +CPSI: NO SERVICE,Online

    # check signal quality
    -> AT+CSQ
    +CSQ: 23,99

    # configure to use NB-IoT
    -> AT+CMNB=2
    OK

    -> AT+CNMP=38
    OK

    -> AT+CBANDCFG="NB-IOT",8
    OK

    -> AT+CSTT="M2MXNBIOT"
    OK

    -> AT+CPSI?
    +CPSI: LTE NB-IOT,Online,502-12,0x74CE,28185722,12,EUTRAN-BAND8,3702,0,0,-10,-82,-72,15

    # check establish connection
    -> AT+CIPSTATUS
    OK

    STATE: IP START

    # start establish connection
    -> AT+CIICR
    OK

    -> AT+CIPSTATUS
    OK

    STATE: IP GPRSACT

    # get IP address
    -> AT+CIFSR
    10.247.96.227

    # ping www.google.com
    -> AT+CIPPING="www.google.com"
    +CIPPING: 1,"172.217.166.132",111,52
    +CIPPING: 2,"172.217.166.132",170,52
    +CIPPING: 3,"172.217.166.132",110,52
    +CIPPING: 4,"172.217.166.132",128,52
    ```

  7. Run `Ctrl-a` then `Ctrl-d` to minimise the screen. To Resume the screen run `screen -r`.

  8. Run `Ctrl-a` then type: `:quit` to quit the screen.


## PPP Installation on Raspberry Pi
NB-IoT HAT offers PPP (Point-to-Point Protocol) for us to connect Raspberry Pi to Internet easily. The following steps show how to establish Internet connection with Raspberry Pi.

### Prerequisite
- Raspberry Pi
- SIM7000E NB-IoT HAT
- MicroUSB Type B Cable

### Steps

1. Plug the NB-IoT HAT into Raspberry Pi Board using USB

2. Run the command below on Raspberry Pi to check availability of HAT. It will show /dev/ttyUSB2 if it exists.

    ```
    ls /dev/ttyUSB2
    ```

3. Go to directory where you have downloaded the GIT respository. E.g. /home/pi/maxis-nbiot-hackathon

    ```
    cd /home/pi/maxis-nbiot-hackathon
    ```

4. Run the commands below to install PPP on Raspberry Pi as root. You will need to enter password after command `sudo su`
    
    ```
    $ sudo su
    $ cd "Raspberry Pi/PPP Installer"
    $ chmod +x install-ppp.sh
    $ ./install-ppp.sh
    ```

5. Run command below to start the connection. 

    ```
    pon
    ``` 

6. Run command below to check if interface ppp0 exists.
    
    ```
    ifconfig
    ``` 

7. If it is successful, you should see IP exists in interface ppp0 from `ifconfig` command.

8. Run command below to stop the connection. 

    ```
    poff
    ``` 

9. Automate the connection during Raspberry Pi boot-up.
    - Run command `nano /etc/rc.local` to start edit file.
    - Insert 2 lines before line `exit 0` in file

    ``` hl_lines="2 3"
    ...
    sleep 5
    sudo pon &

    exit 0

    ```

10. Final script will be similiar as below:

    ``` hl_lines="20 21"
    #!/bin/sh -e
    #
    # rc.local
    #
    # This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
    # Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
    # value on error.
    #
    # In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
    # bits.
    #
    # By default this script does nothing.

    # Print the IP address
    _IP=$(hostname -I) || true
    if [ "$_IP" ]; then
        printf "My IP address is %s\n" "$_IP"
    fi

    sleep 5
    sudo pon &

    exit 0
    ```

11. Make sure you have turned off WiFi or unplug Ethernet to make sure Raspberry Pi will use PPP in next bootup.

12. Reboot Rapsberry Pi for step 9 to take effect.


### References
For more references, please visit https://www.rhydolabz.com/wiki/?p=16325
